If you're managing Google Ads, you know
the drill just as well as I do. There's
a hundred different tasks flying at you
every single week. You're constantly
feeling like you're reacting and you're
wondering where your time actually goes
when you look back on the week, the
month, and the year. What if I told you
that the secret to Google Ads
productivity isn't about working harder,
but using a bulletproof routine that
actually gives you back control. That's
what I've done the last 15 years. And in
this video, I'm going to pull back the
curtain and show you exactly what my
weekly Google Glass routine looks like
and what the routine is we recommend to
people in Savvy in order to actually be
on top of accounts and how it helps you
push back against all those time wasting
urgent requests from your boss,
teammates, or even your client.
Before we dive into the daily breakdown
you saw in the thumbnail, I want to talk
about 10 non-negotiable rules that makes
this entire system work. And one of
them, if you ignore it, will sabotage
every single effort you make to be more
productive. Number one, there's a few
things that move the needle, and you
need to find out what it is for your
account. For some accounts, changing the
budgets and bids makes no sense
whatsoever. For others, it's one of the
core things you need to work on. So,
figure out what moves the needle for
your account and spend most of your time
there. Number two, analysis doesn't move
the needle unless it leads to action.
And if you're analyzing an account all
day, coming up with super nice, fancy
reports and figuring out all these cool
things, that's awesome. But if you don't
do anything about if you don't click
that button in the interface,
performance is not going to change.
Number three, avoid doing a little of
everything. Try to scale in and focus
time or days to really get in depth. It
can be a whole day of ad writing. It
could be a whole day of bidding, be a
whole day of doing something else. Just
try to avoid doing a little bit of
optimization here, a little bit of ad
writing there, a little bit of search
term review there. schedule focused time
in for things. Number four, fix
dashboards with data saves you a ton of
time if it's gathered in one place so
you can do an easy analysis. In Savvy,
it's as easy as we have a spreadsheet
where we have all the data for a
specific client. And then we don't have
to jump one place to get the blended
rows. We don't have to get another place
to get the margin. We don't have to jump
another place see, weekly, and monthly.
We have everything in one spreadsheet
where we also can compare to the exact
same days or dates last year. Number
five, using conversions by time can help
you understand current performance and
not have to wait for the conversion lag.
That is just annoying to wait for, but
you just need to be careful. If you have
a large spend last week and a lower
spend this week, then this week's ROS by
time will look pretty good. Number six,
make sure you automate recurring tasks.
This is everything from make sure you
have safety reports in the merchant
center. So if your feed drops, then all
your products don't go away. you need to
disable Google's automations so that you
one day don't wake up and like, "Oh my
god, why is the broad match in my entire
account?" Whatever tools you're using,
make sure you build in some
notifications so you get told about
things. You don't have to actively go in
and check for things to be there. Number
seven is one of my biggest biggest
things is you need to take notes. No
matter if you're an agency or you're
inhouse, you need to take notes and you
need to take two different kinds of
notes because it saves you time in the
future. Number one is that you need to
set notes in the graphs inside of Google
Ads. When you make a bidding change,
when you make make a budget change, when
you make a bigger change to campaigns,
new pausing, a lot of stuff, just put in
a small note. It takes you 3 seconds to
do. And you can then in the future see,
hey, we saw lower spend on this day or
after this day, what happened? Well, I
changed the bids. I changed the budgets.
And then I'd like to have a log or any
big changes, any changes really do and
all my thinking goes into a notion
database where I can easily find out
what my thinking was around certain
things or why I made it the change that
I did. Number eight, bookmark any report
or link that you access frequently. For
goodness sake, do not just go
adwords.google.com,
go to your MCC, go find the account, and
then you no, you need a link to just
bookmark. Go straight to that account.
Takes 5 minutes to set up and then you
have it in there. You just click a
button. Number nine, you need to get out
of recurring executive meetings,
especially if they're weekly. Again,
weekly meetings with your manager,
having proactive communication, all
these things work really, really well.
But try to get out of recurring
executive meetings, they take forever to
prepare for. There's a lot of time just
wasted in there. And number 10 for me is
the second biggest thing. Proactive
communication lower all other
communication tasks by 80%. Especially
for in-house teams because you suck at
at communication because nobody's
expecting you to really do something.
This is where agencies is a lot better
built to do it. But just making sure
that you every week you send a report or
or an update out to your manager or
anybody else who's who needs to be in
the know and just give them an update.
Take those 30 minutes and give them an
update on everything. What's happening
with this sale? What's happening with
this data? What's happening with this
product that we're trying to push right
now? What happened to this thing you
guys agreed to two weeks ago? What's the
update on this data? Just get it all in
there. It stops people from asking you a
thousand questions randomly throughout
the week.
If you struggle with productivity, then
one of the things that is very very
important is that you find out a way to
get your week to be more structured. I'm
going to show you what an ideal week
looks like for somebody with complete
autonomy and they just have one client.
Later, I'll show you how to customize
this if you're inhouse, you have a task
or if you work with multiple clients,
plus how my own week look like. So, as
you can see here, we have an overview
where we say, "Okay, this is every day
we're going to do a daily check-in."
Like I mentioned before, the more
notifications you have, you can reduce
the need to do a daily check-in. Then
Mondays, we do performance, bidding, and
reporting because those three tasks go
together more or less. And again, if you
have a small account, if you don't have
anything else to do or anything, you can
put in more tasks. Uh, but I like to
structure it like this. Then on
Tuesdays, we do optimize build. Same
thing on Wednesday. Thursday is again a
performance deep dive and at hawk for
anything that we need. Fridays we do
communication so that everybody's
updated for when they come in on Mondays
and we have some playtime built into it
as well. The way that this works is that
we have four main buckets when it comes
to the routine and I want to rotate them
on a weekly basis depending on what I
need. The four buckets are analysis,
optimization, building and playtime. I
split up optimization and building
because I feel like building things and
accounts is different than optimizing
the things we already have. So I like to
split those two out so it doesn't get
too much. Otherwise, this is what it
looks like. So we have under the
analysis part, we have the these
proactive check-ins every day. And
again, the more notifications you can
actually get in there, the better you
can avoid having to be in there
yourself. The daily check-in is just a
check-in. Add any tasks you find from
there in your overall task management
system. Do not try to do everything on
that date. That's not what the idea is.
The idea is just to go and check and see
if there's anything wrong. If there's
anything wrong, you add a task. Um, from
a performance standpoint under analysis,
it's a little bit different than your
checking because it is going more in
depth trying to find out is anything
underperforming, is anything
overperforming, and then figure out why
and what to do about it. It can also be
you have to check in on seasonality,
promotions, and other things. And that
way you can just get ahead of
everything. The reporting I like to have
a weekly and monthly reporting schedule
and then I do of course anything ad hoc
for board meetings. Optimization
routines really depend on what the
individual account is and the same thing
for building. Sometimes I spend a lot
more time on building than I do on
optimization. So it it really depends.
The one thing I just want to say here
this is like a pretty standard approach
to the different optimization tasks that
we have as you can see on the screen.
Maybe some of them you need to add that
are focused on your account or what you
specifically do. This is pretty broad
and this handles most accounts, but it's
not anything specific to some of the
accounts that I have. Then number four
is playtime. Just this is where you
play. This is where you learn new
things. You test new scripts. You watch
new YouTube videos. You play with chatt.
You try to create automations. For some
people, this is there's zero time for
it. For others, they have a lot of time.
So, I wanted to show you my exact
schedule before I go in and show what an
agency and an in-house team look like. I
work with two large clients. I have
content requirements. I have different
meetings within the agency and I have
different other obligations. So, this is
just overall what my week looked like.
So, I'll come in Monday and I'll just do
a daily check-in. Uh, but then I'll do
exactly what I said before, performance,
bidding, and bit report that goes sent
out to both clients every single Monday.
That way I have looked at what what is
the performance and I've sent out a
report for it and I've made the same
changes every single week. Then on
Tuesdays it's client A. It is actually
reverse. I start with optimizing and
building and then we have a meeting at
the end of the day. Wednesday I go over
to client B full optimization day with
them optimize build reporting and they
get the notification that they need or
communication that they need. Thursday,
I go back to client A because we've
discussed things on Tuesday that they
didn't discuss more in depth on
Wednesday and they get final approvals
on and then I get the go-ahhead on
Thursdays on some of the things that I
want to do. That allows me to do
optimization, performance, and reporting
for them. Fridays is then it's very
mixed. It depends who needs it the most,
what is more urgent, do I have any big
build tasks I need to do? Otherwise, is
really where I do most of my content or
I do my play time where I try to learn
new things. However, I will say I don't
have any dedicated play time. I usually
try to build it into everything that I
do. Sometimes I do the same thing every
single week, but I try to as much as
possible try to learn new things, try
new things, try smart building
exploration, try AI max, try these
things that I try to build it into my
optimization and build time overall.
Now, I have a couple of things that are
different when it comes to whether or
not you're an agency or you're inhouse
when you create these routines. The
biggest difference is that an agency you
probably need to decrease the week to a
day instead and then rotate more where
in-house uh teams might have more custom
tasks that fill out the week. You might
have to work on price comparison
websites or other channel work. You
might need to do a lot more feed
management for other channels than I do
from Google Ads with standpoint. You
most likely have to sit in on a lot more
meetings than I have to do. I don't get
as many requests for reports. It is one
of the fun things that happen when
you're an agency. So an in-house week
might look more like this where we say
okay on Monday you still have the
performance and the reporting and the
bidding aspect but then there's a team
meeting has been thrown in there.
Tuesday might be a completely shot day
for you. You have three agency syncs and
you have a meeting with your category
managers. Wednesday is then the day you
can go fully in on just focusing on
Google ads. If you go back to the
beginning of the video, make sure you
don't have like, okay, team meeting
Monday, category meeting Tuesday, agency
meeting Wednesday, brand meeting
Thursday. Get all your meetings in one
day if you can. Try to get as get
dedicated time just to focus on Google
ads. Get into that mindset. Really focus
on it on that day. Thursday, we go in,
we okay, now we then do some of the
extra channels from the brand marketing
team. They have some ad updates they
want to do, etc., etc. Now we just we
schedule all that ad hoc weird stuff on
a Thursday. If there's any time left
over, we can push back into look into
our ad account, but we just try to keep
Tuesdays and Thursdays to weird stuff
and meetings. And then Wednesdays and
Fridays is really where Fridays nobody
bother us. So we can really focus on
optimizing and building. And then I just
say remember to get a communication or
reporting uh tab in here where you just
send out that 30 minute email, 10-minute
Loom video explaining what it is that
has happened and what the next steps
are. Now the most important thing here
is that you protect your schedule and
you just you need a schedule so that
when your manager or anybody else comes
and says hi can you do XYZ things today
then you can say yes
I can do it but I can't do it today I
can schedule it for Thursday today I'm
focused on optimizing then your manager
can say no and they'll override you
don't get to make those kind of ch
decisions okay okay but I can't tell you
how many in-house teams where when I
come in I start coaching them, half
their week just goes to things that have
nothing to do with the channel that
they're managing, their Google Ads
manager, and half their week goes with
other things. So, really focus on making
sure that you have a plan because most
of the time people will respect a plan
if it's set up in a schedule instead of
you just going, well, I can't do it
today. Why not? Well, I'm optimizing.
You're always optimizing. No, not
really. However, for an agency, your
structure might look a little bit
differently. or if you're a freelancer.
So on Monday, you have a weekly plan
that you create for yourself that week.
I think that's one of the things we do a
lot in Savvy is make sure that people go
in and they plan their week. Some like
to plan on Fridays, others like to do it
on Mondays. For us, it just needs to be
ready Monday morning at 10:00 a.m. Then
we have an internal meeting, go over
anything that's new, anything, any
changes. And then most people go out and
they focus on the performance and
reporting for their clients. Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday all look
very similar. There's client A, B, C,
and D. For some, this means that you
actually have client A on Tuesdays and
Wednesdays, and then client uh B and C
on Thursdays and Friday. For others,
they have slightly more clients. They're
maybe on five or six, and then they
split it up in half days or one day
every two weeks. But we try to make sure
that you get just get one client per
day. And it really really helps you
helps people focusing on just one thing.
Now, the biggest thing on the agency
side is to actually get work done and
know when to rotate what tasks. Some
weeks it's more important to prioritize
optimizing and building, while other
weeks is more important to understand in
depth how the ad account is actually
working. Comparing an in-house team to
an agency schedule might seem like
agencies it's impossible on paper, but
many in-house teams get less done than
agency teams. And again, the only reason
for this is that the agency can
distribute learnings across more people.
So they end up being more efficient. We
do the same thing over and over and over
again with dedicated tools for certain
tasks. So it's not as bleak as it looks
like when you look at in-house versus
agencies. You can actually get a lot
done. But to summarize what we've talked
about in this video, number one, create
a schedule of what you need to do when.
If this means you need to take tasks
that are not Google Ads related and put
them on a specific date at a time so
that they're they're all on a Friday,
they're all on a Thursday, and then the
rest of the week is all Google Ads
related, then do that. Number two, make
sure you know what to do when. That's
the schedule, but use it, enforce it,
tell other people how it works so that
you can actually rely on it. And number
three, remember to be proactive. This
ensures that you aren't constantly
reacting and getting sidetracked for to
what other people want and you can
actually focus on being proactive in the
account. Let me know what your favorite
productivity tips is for Google Ads and
I'll see you in the next one. If you're
into practical PPC insights that you can
actually help you, then subscribe. I
share tips, breakdowns, and call out
what's working and what's not. No fluff,
just the stuff that you can use every
single week.